# AlgoMonster 
## Ideia Principal

Knowing what not to study
The real interview questions condense to a small set of patterns and mastering these patterns should be the focus of your study.

identifying patterns and breaking down complex problems.

Patterns: Master common patterns
Templates: Never make coding mistakes again using our templates for each pattern
Speedrun: Expanding your knowledge by going through many problems quickly


Keep Your Phone Far Away: Put your phone in another room or out of reach. This is the best way to avoid distractions.
Do Not Disturb Mode: If you really can't do without the phone, at least put it on DND mode to stops interruptions.
Delete Your Social Media Apps: Apps like TikTok make us want quick rewards. Once you get used to easy dopamine, it becomes harder for you to focus with low dopamine-releasing tasks like studying. This can make it hard to focus on coding problems that help us in the long run. Understanding this can help you make better choices.

Care about self improve 
I want to acctualy learn data sctucture and algorithms


Understanding Number Bases

What is a Logarithm? A logarithm answers the question: To what power must we raise a certain base to get a number? In simpler terms, it's the inverse of an exponential function.

Exponential Examples with Base 2:

Given a number, the logarithm tells us how many times we need to multiply 2 to obtain that number.

From this, we can get that the number of permutations for a set of size n is n * (n-1) * (n-2)... 1. This is called factorial of n, denoted by n!. For example, 5! = 5 * 4 * 3 * 2 * 1 = 120. This means there are 120 ways to arrange 5 letters in a row.


1, 2, 3, 4, 5 is an arithmetic sequence because the difference between consecutive numbers is 1.

1, 3, 5, 7, 9 is an arithmetic sequence because the difference between consecutive numbers is 2.

1, 2, 4 is not an arithmetic sequence because the difference between the first two terms is 1 (2 - 1 = 1), but the difference between the next two terms is 2 (4 - 2 = 2). Since the differences are not the same, this is not an arithmetic sequence.


The sum of an arithmetic sequence is (first_element + last_element) * number_of_element / 2. Here's the animated proof from Wikipedia if you are interested.

For example:

sum([1,2,3,4,5]) = (1 + 5) * 5 / 2 = 15

sum([1,3,5,7,9]) = (1 + 9) * 5 / 2 = 25


What is Time Complexity? 

helping us understand the worst-case scenario in terms of performance.

Time complexity helps us predict these differences without having to run the algorithms with actual large inputs.

O(n) - Time grows linearly with the input size.
## Referências

## Tags
[[Algoritmos]]

---
*Criado em: 2025-10-17 19:38*