### 1 lesson

Topics on Course

Represent knowledge with data structres.
Iteration and recursion as computational metaphors.
Abstraction of procedures and data types.
Organize and modularize systesm using obkect classes and methods.
Diffrente classes of algorithms, searching and sorting.
Complexity of algoratihms.

What does a computer do

- perfomrs calculations.
- renember results
- built-in to the language
- ones that you define

** computer do what you write, computer does no anything**

### Types of knowledge

- declarative knowledge is statements of fact.
- imperative knowledge is a recipe or how to

What is a recipe.

- flow of control
- way of stop

- fixed program - example calculator, just do one thing
- stored program - machines now, u can store sequence of instructions and execute

### Basic machine Architecture

memory (data, sequence of instructions) -> control unit (for the sequence) => arithmetic logic unit )
u can program just use the six primitives -> move left, right, read , write, scan and nothing.
expressions are the group of word that make something.
the program language have only one mean for the word

### Objects

programs manipulate data objects
scalar - cannot be divide
non-scalar - can be divide

---

### 2 lesson

1. string object type
2. branching and conditionals
3. identation
4. iteration and loops

1 = Letters, spaces, digits, special characters, Betwwen single quotes.
Input
Comparison Operator on int, float, string >< !== ===
print() = to show stuff in console

2 = Control flow if <conditional> inside the expressio

identations

### 3 lesson

string manipulation
guess and check algorithms
approximate solutions
bisection method

use len() to get the lenght of string
string perform indexing
can use [1:2] to select some space in a string
Strings are immutable
